From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lauren as Ryan announcing
show number one 73. Recorded
live Thursday, July 23rd, 2009. Support for
Hanselman it's just provided by
Tellerik red controls, the most
comprehensive suite of components for
windows forms and asp.net web
applications. online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode,
Scott talks with Mary Jo
Foley about windows seven and
the future of Microsoft. Hi,
this is Scott Hanselman and
this is another episode of
Hansel minutes. I'm here today
talking with Mary Jo Foley.
Mary Joe runs the all
about Microsoft blog for ZD
net. She has an unblinking
eye on Microsoft, and you've
been doing journalism around Microsoft
for a very long time.
Haven't you? Mary Jo. I
have Scott way too long.
Are you sick of looking
at just one company? No,
you guys are always a
fascinating company because every time
you think you've figured out
Microsoft and you've got it
all figured out and you
know what they're going to
do, they do something surprising.
Yeah. That project natal. Sure.
Surprised me. I didn't see
that coming at all. Yeah,
really well. It's good. They
can still surprise people who
work there. Well, it's, it's,
it's funny. I mean, there
were 80,000 people and when
it's something like natal comes
out or they go on
Jimmy Fallon, I always get
a cousin or someone calling
and saying, Oh my goodness,
why didn't you tell me?
Like, I have no idea.
They don't tell us anything.
I mean, I work for
the developer division. So, you
know, I think about developer
tools. I think that, you
know, windows seven coming out
was just as exciting and
wonderful as anybody else did.
So, Yep. I was thinking
it was very exciting myself,
but it was funny. I
was talking to somebody yesterday
and I said, you know,
even though I don't work
on the windows team, never
have worked for Microsoft. Whenever
a new version of windows
comes out. I still feel
kind of like I'm part
of it in a way,
because I have to write
about every little twist and
turn of windows. I mean,
I've been writing about windows
seven for three years, so
it's like, wow, they did
it on the next thing,
you know? Yeah. I feel
like you should get your
little ship at a badge
or your, your, your piece
of clear plastic that you
put on your, on your
fireplace. My non blue badge.
Yeah. Well, it's, it's, it's
interesting. I've worked at Microsoft
now. It'll be two years
in September, October, somewhere in
there. And while I was
in no way involved in
shipping window seven, I did
file some bugs. And I
learned some really interesting things
about how, how bugs work
is that if it's a
non, you know, interesting. And
I put that in quotes,
non-interesting bug like one, that's
not a huge deal. Then
you really have to kind
of be the advocate for
that bug. So I think
I filed maybe 10 or
15 bugs and I got
six or seven fixed. And
these are all kind of
mostly aesthetic things like, you
know, this icon is, is
ambiguous or, you know, when
you do this really obscure
thing to the start menu
on a Tuesday, then this
happens. But when it, when
those bugs closed and you
can like search in the
bug database for Scott H
a and you go, you
know, what did Scott ha
file? I feel like, Hey,
yeah, you know, I made
this a better product. So
I feel like if I
ever hear that someone did
that weird thing to the
start menu on a Tuesday,
and it worked that I
had a tiny, tiny role
in that. And that was
a sense of pride. I
didn't think that I would
get, cause I'm trying not
to be assimilated by the,
the big blue monster. Yeah.
I mean, I have done
nothing like that. I mean,
I, I get to play
with some of the test
builds the windows seven, like
I got the beta and
RC, but you know, I'm
not a techie, even though
I write about operating systems,
I kind of write from
a layperson's point of view.
So I still, I still
was interested in seeing how
the whole process works and
how that all happens and
how bugs get fixed or
don't, it's interesting. Yeah. The,
the, the triage process is
really interesting. They, they put
a lot of thought into
what the end user experience
is going to be. I
found some really obscure bug
when a certain printer was
installed. When you, you know,
plugged in, when you boot
it up, you know that
then your boot up would
be slower. And it was
some obscure firmware driver. And
they had to think about,
well, how many of these
printers are out there? And
what'll happen. It's really interesting
to me, because with, with
like Apple products, you've got
a lot less hardware diversity,
but with windows, man, you
don't know what anybody's running,
you know, who knows what
random TV, you know, European
TV card that they have
plugged in to some random
mouse and it all has
to work together. Yeah. I
mean, you know, that's a,
it's always kind of funny
to me when people just
say, well, Apple's products work
so much better together. And
like, why can't Microsoft do
that? I'm like, well, if
Microsoft owned the NM process,
they could too, but that's
not how it works. And
there's all these different parts
that come from different places,
software, hardware, drivers is that,
I mean is a lot
of things to mix and
match and see if they
all work. Now, you, you
just said something interesting. You
said that you've been writing
about this from the point
of view of a lay
person. So, I mean, you're
not a programmer, you're not,
but we just think of
yourself as a power user.
Would you think of yourself
as kind of an average
Joe user or Jolene user?
Oh, I, I think of
myself as a completely average
user and other people who've
tried to help me fix
things would agree. I'm sure.
It's funny. I know, I
know about technology. I'm a
journalist by, and I've never
taken a computer science class
and you know, everything I've
learned about operating systems, I've
learned by writing and reporting
about them. So, you know,
just because I happen to
do that job, it doesn't
necessarily mean when people send
me something, I go, okay,
run such and such a
script or do this. I'll
be like, okay, I don't
know how to do that.
Sorry, you guys gotta help
me here. And so I'm
no in no way of
how are you, So you,
so you're experiencing it as
you go, like where you
running betas of windows seven,
did you experience it? And
as a user and say,
wow, this feels different. Or
darn those drivers don't work.
Were you having this happen
as it, as it happened?
Well, you know, I, I
run as my day to
day work machine windows, XP
on a ThinkPad. And that's
what I've been running for
the past three years. And
I still run that. Now,
the way I experienced windows
seven was on a loaner
machine, a loaner sink pad,
where I had the different
beta and RC builds installed
there. So I get to
kind of go back and
forth between the two and
try it out and see
what was different. And I
have to admit when I
put my first build of
windows seven, I was like,
yo, I don't know how
to do this because I
haven't been using Vista. And
so it looked really different
to me because I'm still
using the old XP look
and feel. And it felt
like a big jump. But
after I used it a
few times, I'm like, no,
it's way more intuitive than
I thought it was. And
it's not going to be
a, you know, a switch
that people can't make. I
may, I mean, I feel
like if I can do
it, so can they, Yeah.
It's funny. I was talking
to our producer Lawrence before
the show, while we were
waiting for you to call
in and he said, yeah,
I hear the windows seven.
Is that, what is it
like, is it got a
lot of eye candy? And
I was like, wow, that's
a really, that's a really
loaded question. I can date
me. Is it prettier? Sure.
Is it prettier for no
reason? No, I don't think
that's the case. No, I
would say actually what I
liked about windows seven was
it doesn't have a lot
of eye candy and it's
kind of a stripped down
clean looking interface. And that
appeals to me because I've,
I've actually tried to use
the Mac operating system a
number of times. And I'm
always ridiculed by Mac users
for not wanting to switch
over to it because supposedly
it's so much more intuitive
and more fun to use
and the better interface. But
I feel like as someone
who's used windows all the
time, I've used the computer.
It's not that intuitive to
switch from windows to Mac
Mac to me is more
eye candy. Interesting. I know
that I like the Mac
animations, you know, there's all
the windows were always running
away like genies and stuff,
which I think is cool,
but we have two max
at the house here. I've
got a Mac which has
kinda like the kitchen recipe
machine. It's a Mac mini,
and then we've got a
Mac pro, but you know,
I, people will say I'm
a Microsoft shell, but I
just keep booting windows seven
on the thing. I just
say that, you know, forget
about it. I'll just boot
windows seven. Cause it's a,
it's a fine little seven
laptop. Now, one of the
interesting things about windows seven,
that, that, that surprised me
was that I'm running it
here. I'm looking at, I'm
sitting in front of four
monitors on a quad processor
machine with, I think I've
got either eight or 12
gigs of Ram. I'm actually
got so much Ram I've
forgotten how much Ram I
have. And next to me,
over here, I've got a
tiny Dell mini with a
gig of Ram and a
little tiny 16 gig hard
drive. And it's the same
operating system it's working really
well. Have you run it
on big machines and small
machines? I haven't, I've only
tried it on the think
pad, but you know, when,
when it comes out in
October, I I'm really, really
interested in buying a copy
of windows seven preloaded on
a netbook. And the reason
I am is because I'm,
I'm probably like one of
the stereotypical types who would
make a lot of use
out of a notebook. You
know, I have, I have
a regular machine at home.
That's my laptop everyday machine,
but I want a machine
that can just grab, throw
in my purse and go
cover a press conference. And
my laptop right now is
a little big and a
little heavy to do that.
So I'm like, wow, wouldn't
that be cool to have
a really good operating system
on a netbook and just
be able to take it
and go and, and then
come back home and use
my regular desktop. So a
little mix and match thing
going on there. Yeah. This,
this talk of the, the
Intel guys, the, the bosses
at Intel, the suits, the
executive saying that Netflix really
aren't that useful. It seemed
silly to me, the, my
love, my, my netbook, if
it could get even a
little bit smaller with, I
wish you could have a
foldout keyboard even. I mean,
I was one of those
guys who used to sit
on an airplane with a
Palm pilot and a foldout
keyboard. Remember those little keyboards
that were like the size
of a wallet, and then
you'd go and it would
suddenly be a full sized
keyboard. You know, I'd sit
there staring at this little
black and white screen trying
to write like the great
American novel, just because, just
because of the satisfaction, I
would get carrying an entire
portable word processing system in
my back pocket. Yeah. I,
I always feel like that
too. It's funny. Cause a
lot of people say, Oh,
you don't really want a
netbook. You want a full
fledged laptop. And I think
there's kind of this disjointed
understanding about who really does
want a netbook. Like people
are like, Oh, it's only
low power users. And they
get really frustrated with the
keyboard. They get really frustrated
with not enough memory for
somebody like me, like a
quote information worker as I'm
called in the, in the
way Microsoft categorizes people. I,
a lot of days I
don't open a lot of
apps. I might open like
say word and an email,
a client and a browser.
And that's it for the
whole day. Like I don't
use anything else. And so
a netbook would be perfect
for that. Yeah. I run,
I'm looking at my task
right here. I've got tweet
deck. I've got a browser
chat, windows, Zune and outlook.
So I don't know. What
is it? Six applications for
some reason, the day of
having 20, 40 different applications
running at the same time,
unless I'm actively developing, I
don't find myself running a
thousand applications. Yeah. I mean,
and you know, if all
you do is kind of
what I do, which is
create and consume information, you
don't really need a lot
of other apps. Like people
are like, what about Photoshop?
I'm like, I've never used
Photoshop in my life, you
know? Well, yeah, it's funny.
I actually use a, I
use paint. I use a
program called paint.net, which is
a little free application. It's
almost like what you used
to need is built in
now. So, you know, I
use Photoshop back in the
day and then now I
don't have to buy Photoshop
because I'm not a professional
designer. I'll use paint.net, which
is free. And then, you
know, more and more, I'll
just use the paintbrush that's
built into, into windows seven
because it's got, it'll save
as PNG now and it'll
do, it'll do the stuff
that I need so that
the expectation of what comes
out of the box is,
is greater. Like I noticed
that windows seven, my DVD,
I remember the whole thing
with Vista. I think you
probably covered this when DVDs
wouldn't play out of the
box, you had to go
and get a Kodak or
download something to make your,
your DVDs play. Now just
even, even, even really complicated
codex on windows seven, work
out of the box. I
didn't have to download any
fancy Kodak. Of course, for
those folks that don't necessarily
aren't native English speakers or
are, I think it's compressor
decompressor. And these are the
files that allow you to
watch various videos and windows
Vista didn't have some codex,
I think, early on. And
I seem to remember maybe
it was XP that you
had to download a DVD
driver to get things working,
but I'm realizing that I
may want to go and
pave my machine and it'll
start from scratch with windows
seven, even though I'm running
the release candidate back in
the day, I used to
have to install 50 or
a hundred different applications to
get a machine back. I'm
looking through my start menu
here and I could probably
get a machine up and
running in about four hours
and it would've taken me
several days. Now, why don't
you run Vista? You said
you're running XP on your
primary machine. Yeah. You know,
I run a really kind
of low end thing pad.
I've only got a gig
of Ram in the sling
pad and I never upgraded
it back to the am
I a power user? You
know? So everybody's like add
more memory and I'm like,
yeah, I don't really think,
I know everyone's like, Oh
brother, you know, come on.
But yeah. So I've never
really tinkered with it. And
you know, because I'm a
one person shop, I'm self
employed, I'm a freelancer who's
self-employed and I don't have
an it department. So I'm
always afraid if I really
screw up my machine, I'm
really out of luck because
I don't have anybody who
can go, okay, let me
go back and, you know,
check your archives and do
this and that. And Oh,
you did this or that
to it. And that's why
it's not working. I have
somebody I can call on
like that. Other than, you
know, my friends who are
in the tech community and
a few of them have
said, they'd make a house
call, but it's still, you
know, kind of, kind of
scary to somebody who's like
an average user, like me
to be tinkering with all
this stuff and moving to
an operating system that I
know has higher requirements than
possibly would be good on
this PC. So I've, I've
just never done it. And
what kind of a thing
that is it what's the
breadth of the model number.
Oh yeah. You'll have no
trouble with that. I'm under
seven. Yeah. Yeah. I'm not
afraid to try it with
windows seven, but I was
more afraid to try it
with Vista plus. Oh, I
see. Yeah. Well, that's, that's
a very good reason. Yeah.
Also, you know, with, with,
with Vista, I also, I
get to say when I
also got a chance to
test that out as it
was being developed and I
never liked a lot of
things about it, you know,
the hibernation legs and the
kind of all the UAC
prompts, which they've scaled back
quite a bit in Vista
and windows seven. So I,
I kind of felt like
I'm not really missing anything
by not running Vista. I've
got a fully patched XP
machine and I'm just going
to stick with that until
windows seven comes. Right. Right,
right. Yeah. My I'm trying
to get my wife. I
got in trouble early on
in the windows seven cycle
because I upgraded her machine
to windows seven beta without
asking. So I am no
longer allowed to touch my
wife's computer. But yesterday when
you know that release candidate
came out, reach candidate, we
RTM brother released to manufacturing
yesterday. So I'm like, I'm
so excited. I get to
introduce windows seven to my
wife, and now there's a
family pack and I want
to go get the family
pack. And I, you know,
you know what you're getting
for, for Christmas, from me,
I'm afraid is a copy
of windows seven. Well, that's
not a big gift. I
don't think, I don't think
so. Do you think now
as a, you've done a
lot of analysis and you've
been watching all of this.
I mean, is this a,
is this a winner for
us? Is this gonna turn
things around for Microsoft? That's
a, that's a big goal
there, but it's definitely a
winner. I think it's really
great. I have to go
with the analysts who say,
it's what Vista should have
been. It really, it's very
solid. And it feels like,
yeah, this is something you'd
want to try and not,
not be afraid to, you
know, implemented multiple tens of
thousands of seats across your
company. You know, there's a
lot of other things Microsoft
has going on besides that,
which make me scared to
say, it's going to turn
all of Microsoft around, but
I think it's, I think
it's really solid. And I
think it's, it was admirable
that Microsoft did what they
said they do. They get
it in, you know, in
to our TM within the
window. They said, partners seem
to really like it. I
talked to Dell and some
other OEMs Toshiba, and they
really think it's pretty solid
and are committed to it.
So those are all good
signs. That's good. That's good.
Cause you get a pretty
wide, like you said, you
work for yourself. So you're
completely objective in this sense.
So you, you contract to
ZD net, is that, how
has that works? So I
blog For ZD net and
it's public information that the
way we get paid by
ZD net is we get
paid by our traffic. So
every time you click on
my blog, you are giving
me a penny. I didn't
realize that's actually a pretty
good system. Cause it's always
good to know who your
journalists work for, to know
if there's any special interests
or whatever that, so you
don't care. I mean, I
suppose you would care if
Microsoft went away. Cause then
you'd have to find another
company to focus on. But
yeah, you're not invested in
Microsoft one way or the
other. You're just reporting on
what's going on at Microsoft.
Right. We even have a
pretty strict disclosure policy on
ZD net where we have
to say if we have
any kind of stake in
the company. So I own
no Microsoft stock. So there's
no reason I'm doing insider
trading or trying to make
the stock go up or
down. And we have to
be pretty clear about, you
know, do we take gifts?
Do we give them back?
Or we were very strict
about all those kinds of
things so that people don't
think we're on the take.
Oh, that's cool. I didn't
realize that. That's that's interesting.
Okay. So you said you've
been talking to the different
Dell and the different OEMs
and it's looking like we're
going to have machines in
the stores that are going
to have windows seven on
them pretty pretty soon before
October, middle of October. Yeah.
October 22nd is considered the day
when retailers and the PC
makers can start actually selling
machines with windows seven preloaded,
but people can get the
bits before that. If, if
they, if you're like an
MSDN or a TechNet subscriber,
you'll be able to get
them in August and volume.
Licensees can get them around
September 1st. So, you know, people
start actually being able to
get them before that big
launch date. Okay. I, you
know, I have to say
as a, as a, not
just as an employee, because
I've only been there two
years, but as a person
who's, you know, gone through
the whole 95, 98 windows
me 2000, the whole process,
I thought it was pretty
awesome that we put it
out on time. Yeah, yep.
That, that was good. That
was very good. Still. I
think it's a joke. I
thought a bunch of people
thought it was, it was
a joke that we actually
finished it on time. Technically
it's early, as I'm sure
people will point out, you
know, for a long time,
Microsoft was saying, we're going
to get it out by
the first part of 2010.
And a lot of us
who covered the company were
like, yeah, you're just giving
yourself, you know, the maximum
windows, you know, you're going
to be on time if
not early, but you know,
to get it out now
and RTM this summer, it's
it's good. It's they did
it. So that's good. Hey
everybody, this is Scott coming
at you from another place
in time. No doubt. You'll
probably bump into testing tasks
now, and then, and your
work and, you know, writing
functional tests is probably not
your favorite thing. It's kind
of difficult. It takes time
and the results can be
dubious. Well, get ready to
start liking tests. Thanks to
Tellerik with the, the new
whereby testing framework building web
automation test is a breeze.
You've got code automation with
advanced asp.net Ajax and several
Lite applications. You can write
a single test, have it
executed against multiple browsers at
once. You'd benefit from a
rich API there's link support
integration with visual studio, unit
testing, also end unit X
unit and MBE unit, not
to mention the free rappers
for Telerik rad controls for
ESPN and Ajax and several
lines, all shipping with Telerik's
new testing tool. One of
the best features, the webinar
testing framework, which is developed
by art of test is
it's absolutely free. Freddie got
hooked on web testing framework,
start using it right away,
go to tellerik.com for more
info. Thanks a lot. So
if you want to get
back on it, one other
thing, because the idea of
you as a, as a
user, as a user of
windows and as a, as
a journalist watching windows is
interesting to me. You are
a independent, you have an
XP machine, you have a
windows seven machine off to
the side. You have no
it department to keep you
in line. If you install
some driver. So if your
machine's down, then you're in
trouble. You use windows home
server. Cause I know you
blog about home server also.
Here's another funny thing about
my weird existence. So I
live in New York city and
I live in Manhattan. I
have a very small apartment
because everyone in New York does,
unless you're very wealthy. And
the home server guys at
one point were like, you
want to get a home
server and hook up all
your, you know, different PCs
and have them all back
up to the home server.
I'm like I have nowhere
to put a home server.
Literally I could, all my
closet space is full. I
mean, I have two closets
in my whole apartment and
they're full. You're giving our
listeners quite the visualization. They're
trying to figure out this.
Okay. Have you seen a
home server? I'm looking at
a home server. It's the
size of a dictionary. Surely
you can fit a dictionary
in your apartment. The other
day was shopping for a
blender and I didn't buy
it because I don't have
a place to put it.
Wow. Spaces at an ultra
premium here Because you don't
invest in Microsoft stock, then
you would think you would
be rich. Yeah. I tell
ya. The windows home server,
man, that was the operating
system until windows seven. That
was the operating system. That
was, they had me so
stoked. I actually funny windows
home, home service story. When
we moved into this house
here in Oregon, I needed
to get the yard done.
And I was, we hired
the guy to come and
put in the lawn and
to do some landscaping. And
I'm, I'm, I'm a real
notoriously cheap individual. And I
noticed that the guy had
his laptop and you know,
you know, you know these
guys when you've got what
you probably don't cause you
don't have a lawn. When
you have a guy coming
to your yard, they might
have a pickup truck and
then a laptop. And the
laptop is probably from the
late seventies at some point.
And it's been thrown into
the, you know, he just
picks up and he throws
it onto the bench seats
in his, in his, in
his pickup truck. And this
thing was just beat to
hell. I hadn't seen a
laptop as well, loved as
this thing. And I said,
wow, you do your entire
business on that laptop. And
he's like, Oh yeah, man,
at that thing died. That
is the only, that's my
entire business right there. You
know? And I'm thinking to
myself, let me see. Meantime
before failure of a hard
drive is five years and
this guy has had this
thing for seven. He's literally
on borrowed time, you know,
Murphy's law would indicate that
next, the next day, my
lawn guy is going to
have his business collapsed because
of his little laptop. So
I said, I'll trade you
a windows home server. If
you give me a thousand
dollars off of my lawn.
So I went out and
to best buy and bought
a windows home server. I
think it was like 500
bucks. And I took it
over to his house and
I set it up for
him and got his laptop
backing up. And his wife's
machine, his kids machine, whole
operation was like about three
hours, four hours. And, and
then it's about four months
later he had a crash
and he had the stuff
that he needed off of
his home server. So I
cannot the home, whether you
use windows, home server or
something, you know, God back
up your stuff, please. Yeah.
You know, the other reason
I never took their offer
of trying out the home
server was re you realistically,
I have one PC. I
mean, I have all these
loaner machines that I'm always
giving back and trading in
and getting a different loaner.
But I mean, if, what
w what would I really
back up to home server
except for my one machine?
Well, so, so let me,
let me give you an
example. I have effectively, well,
I have seven machines, but
I have one machine effectively.
I have, you know, my
primary machine and it had
160 gig hard drive. And
I recently got an SSD,
right. A solid state disk.
That was a 250 gig.
So how do I play
with my new SSD while
still continuing to work? Well,
my, my home server backs
up an image of the
entire PC. The entire PC
is hard drive every single
night at two in the
morning, it wakes up the
laptop, backs it up, and
then it goes to sleep.
So all I had to
do was remove the old
hard drive, which is sitting
right here next to me,
put the SSD in boot
off of a CD. It
automatically connected to the windows
home server and said, Oh,
this is your think pad.
Do you want me to
restore? I click restore. Even
though I backed up a
one 60 and I restored
it to a two 50,
I was up and running
about four hours later and
I'd restored my machine completely
booted off of it. And
now I'm on the same
machine with a double, the
size of a hard drive.
And it's an SSD. So
it's twice as fast. What
I'm saying to you is
that let's say you're a
single machine crashes tomorrow. How
fast can you get back
up with a home server?
You just buy a hard
drive and you restore from
last night's backup and you
keep working. I'm saying you
take a blender out of
the kitchen and make the
window, Take my dictionary out
and trade it for home
Sharice anymore. Mary Jo, it
must be a book. I
actually, I actually recently speaking
of gadgets and devices bought
a Kindle because I was
running out of room to
get any more books and
I love to read. So
I was like, wow, I
gotta, I gotta solve this
problem. Cause I have no
more space for any more
books. So I got a
Kindle and man, it's awesome.
Do you have to give
the Kindle to, or the
kennel DX? Yep. I get
the Kindle too. Okay. Now
I actually love my Kindle.
I've talked about this on
my blog. A number of
times that the Kindle is
a joy. Although I'm going
to try to borrow a
Kindle DX from somebody in
town. Cause I want to
see what the larger one
is like. Now I get
the New York times on my,
on my Kindle. Have you
set that up too? No,
I just read the times
on the web, so, Oh
yeah. That's the same thing.
The, the, the, how many
books do you have in
your Kindle? And have you
done the audio books? You
know, I really have never
gotten into audio books. I
really still like to read
visually. So I get my
Kindle in, I think it
was around April or so.
And I've read about 10
books on it so far
because I've noticed I can
read way faster on the
Kindle than I can paper.
And it's just so handy.
Cause I travel a lot
to be able to just
take everything with you. And
in this little tiny device,
I get stopped everywhere. I
go in New York. People are
like, is that a Kindle?
Wow, cool. Can I hold
it? I feel like I
should get a commission on
selling them. You just said
you read faster on a
Kindle than a regular book.
How is that possible? I
noticed I am finishing books
way faster. I think it's
because I just keep a
finger on the next page
button and I just, my
eyes just kind of go
next page. Next page.
Next page. Next thing I
know I'm done with the
book. So I don't know
why. I wonder if, if
people are actually saving time,
you know, crucial seconds that
they didn't get wasting paper.
Yeah. It's I never thought
it would really make that
much of a difference. I'm
like, Oh, what's the difference
between turning a page versus
hitting a button, but you
know, the type changes so
quickly and it's, I think
it's very easy on the
eyes. I've been surprised how
that's been too. So I've,
I'm reading a lot and
I'm reading faster. Yeah. I,
I use my Kindle. I
think that I'm reading faster
or reading more. I don't
know about reading faster, but
I definitely know I'm reading
more. I have the thing
with me all the time.
I read more magazines. The
thing that I feel really
the worst about is kind
of exactly the, the idea
that this is a direct
link from Jeff Bezos into my
wallet. So it makes it
so easy to give him
money. We might as well
just deducted from my paycheck,
but I feel bad because
I'll be at the airport,
I'll go to a bookstore.
That's owned by some poor
businessman. I'll flip through the
physical book and then I'll
buy it on the Kindle
while I'm standing there. So
Jeff Bezos is actually stealing money
from this man while I
stand in his bookstore. Yeah,
I know. It's, it's kinda
like the same thing with
music, you know, like how
you, how you used to
be able to go to
Virgin records, which are all
closed up in New York now.
And you could like listen
to a CD or listen
to new music and then
like go home and buy
the digital version. You know,
it's like, Oh, I'm kind
of stealing in a way.
Cause I'm using them to
preview. If I want something
or not. It is sad.
Now this is a jagged
segue, but I wanted to
make sure we talked about
this before, before I let
you go. The Chrome chromo.
S what do you think
about this? Well, you know,
I, I've been thinking a
lot about it. Number one,
we don't know much about
it. So it's kind of
hard to think about it.
We don't really know what
it's gonna look like. How
much is it really an
operating system versus a browser?
How much is it Linux
versus not? But I was
reading a really interesting speculative
piece by Michael Miller, you know,
who used to be the
editor in chief of PC
mag about it. And he
pointed out that, you know,
Google never said this was
a PC operating system. And
I, you know, everyone's saying
it's going to compete with
windows and it's going to
be another, you know, thorn
in Microsoft side. But what
if he's right and it's
not really a PCOM and
it's just like a dedicated
netbook OSTP, that's all it
is. You know? So is
it really Mexico hit to
head with windows or is
it just kind of like
a glitzier souped up browser?
I think it's an interesting
question. And I'm really curious
to see what it looks
like. That is an interesting
question. I think that there's
ton of two sub questions
there. One is support for
drivers, right? I mean, are
they going to take Uber
Boone too, and then strip
it down and put Chrome
browser on it? And then
that, that would be a
general purpose PCO S but
maybe they would block it.
So you couldn't install anything,
which is a, basically an
appliance O S and then
the second question is, well,
what about Boone too? I
think that wound to, as
a, as a, as a
Linux, desktop has such a
following and people who are
into Linux enjoy it so
much that they might find
that it was, it was
presumptuous of Google to go
and think that they could
make their own, you know,
to, to announce the chromo
S might offend Linux users
who already liked their chosen,
their chosen operating system. But,
but I think the really
interesting question is, are they
presuming a fundamental shift in,
in, in the way that
software is run like a,
who was it? Who said
recently that they thought that
the app store was a
bad idea? Yeah. A few
people have been saying that
recently. Yeah. They're saying like
the death of the app
store, like the app store
is a blip. The app
store we're talking about is
the iPhone app store. The
idea that you would go
to an, a store online
purchase software for a specific
machine and bring it down
it's it feels like Google.
And the folks that are
betting on HTML five are
saying that this is a
transitional period that we're in,
and that all software will
be written in HTML five,
all purchase software will be,
you know, something that you
you'd buy a subscription to,
or you'd buy access to
it, but you'll end up
running it in some kind
of a browser. It was
the Palm guys. That's what
it was. It was the
CEO of Palm and their
operating system on the Palm
is basically the entire OSPF.
It's like a web browser.
I don't know. I, I
think I understand the point
of view that really my
netbook is a portable browser,
but just when I think
that I need to run
Excel or, you know, just
when I think that I
run visual studio, so, Right,
exactly. Or you want to
hook it up to a
printer, like that's, that's the
other thing we don't know.
Can, can it print, can
it work with any existing
peripherals like that? That kind
of means it's not to
me if it can't, is
it an operating system? Quote,
unquote at all? Yup. Yup.
I have no idea. Yeah.
I'm going to be really
curious to see what it
looks like Now, when I
chatted you earlier, you were
asking about a thing called
gestalt. Yes. I'm curious about
gestalt. I read about it
on the mix online site,
and I was chatting with
Jeff San Quist a little
bit about it, and I'm
trying to think of a
way to explain it to
a lay person because it's
supposedly meant to make developing
easier. So I should be
able to explain it to
a non programmer. Right. Okay.
That's a good question. So
yes, I can. So in
the old days we wrote
HTML and an HTML was
a declaration of what things
should look like. And you'd
say, here's a table. Here's
a picture. Isn't that nice.
And that was HTML. And
it was good then JavaScript,
which was originally called live
script and has nothing to
do with Java came along.
And this, let us take
the description of what something
should look like and add
a description of behavior. I
can write a tiny program
in a tiny language, and
it was also good. And
then JavaScript grew up and
became a full fledged, powerful
object, trying to an engine.
And then the JavaScript Wars
began and everyone wants faster
and stronger and more wonderful.
But all the while there's
a group of people who
just don't like this language,
they just don't find it
to be the language that
makes them happy. Everyone is
speaking Spanish and they want
to speak Italian. They just
don't like it. So what,
what gestalt is, is the
opportunity to plug in different
languages that make you as
a developer happy. So from
the point of view of
the lay person, nothing changes,
web web webpages are fun,
and they look great. From
the point of view of
the developer, sudden, suddenly someone
has said, it's okay to
speak Italian. Don't worry, we'll
speak English. You speak Spanish,
we'll speak Italian. You can
use Ruby. You can use
Python and you can talk
to your webpages. And as
well as JavaScript, it's, it's
just a choice. And the
way it's done is with
Silverlight, which is a plugin
like flash flash speaks one
language, but Silverlight is a
general system that can speak
any language. So it's conceivable
that other people could extend
gestalt and make other languages
available. All of which just
make developers happier. So It's
silver light inside of Gusto,
or how does that work?
Ah, okay. So silver light
is a general runtime. It's
a general engine that knows
how to talk. It knows
how to speak.net and well,
JavaScript engines know how to
speak JavaScript, like for example,
Google Chrome and Firefox and
IE all speak JavaScript like
with, I, I can point
I can show you the
file on your disc that
says, that's JavaScript, it's called
J script dot DLL. I
could point to it and
say, JavaScript lives there. Silverlight,
isn't a language. It's a,
it's an environment. It's a
runtime. It's a place for
a language to run in,
but it's not specific to
any language. What gestalt is
doing is it's taking the
language out of your HTML
page, handing it to Silverlight
and saying, Hey, run this.
And because we have things
like iron, Ruby, and iron
Python, now we can run
Python and Ruby from the,
from the browser. So we're
in this case, you wouldn't
even need to see that
Silverlight existed. You could make
a tiny one pixel by
one pixel sized or invisible,
even a silver light instance.
You know, you think of
flash and you think of
showing, showing up at a
webpage and having flash take
over the screen with something
like this. It's a little
bit more subtle. The Silverlight
may not even show itself.
It may be invisible, but
the developer is going to
utilize that engine and say,
Oh, you've got silver light.
Great. I want to speak
Ruby. And I'm going to
hand it to you. As
I understand it from Jeff
sandwich team, it's just, it's
a, it's a lab. It's
a, it's a thing that
they've invented as a, as
a, as an experiment to
see if it's possible. It's
one of those things that
everyone has, everyone has a
programmer has thought about, but
no one actually had the
chutzpah to do it. And
Jeff's team just decided, you
know, people need to do
this. So let's just try
it and see what happens.
It's really an interesting idea.
Yeah, it really is. I
didn't realize the silver Lake
connection and that's, that's kind
of cool too. Yeah. So
Silverlight is a generalized engine.
So, so like an example
would be, you know, let's
say you're a Ruby programmer
and you're writing a Ruby
code, but you really wish
you could write Ruby code
in the browser. Then you
could, you could do that
too. Hmm. Do you know
anything about why they're con
why the code named gestalt?
I haven't asked them. I'd
have to ask Jeff San
Quist on, on Twitter, but
isn't the, the gestalt of
something is the, just it's
the general, the general structure
of something to get your
point across. So I would
think that, well, I think
I would say that I
think they are getting their
point across. They're using a
different language to do it.
They could have called the
thing project, get your point
across, but that would use
English, which is a language
we're already using. So why
not say it in German
and say project gestalt, they
got their point across of
the different language, which is
exactly what your Stolt does.
Very interesting. I have a
question for you. Can I
throw one out to you?
Okay. The interview is over.
Yes. This is an easy
one because, cause I I've
been asking a lot of
people who are using windows
seven and the responses have
been very mixed. What do
you think of touching windows
seven? Like, are you a
big touch fan touch on
a laptop and touch on
a PC? I mean, I
understand why people like touch
on a phone and why
some might even want it
on a Kindle, but what
about on a laptop? I
was one of the tablet
people early on. And so,
you know, I definitely get
that. The problem is that,
you know, my phone is
greasy. It's just, it's disgusting.
And I sure don't want
anyone touching my screen. I'm
less interested in touch in
the physicality of it and
more interested in the gesture
aspect of things. It's not
the fact that I actually
have to physically touch my
screen to move that window.
It's the fact that maybe
in a couple of years,
I won't have to touch
the screen at all. I'm
looking at three or four
monitors in front of me
here. Here's my browser at
my right hand. I would
like to just gesture, flipping
my hand to the left.
And I want that browser
to, to kind of move
over to the middle window.
The middle monitor. That's the
promise of touch for me
is not having to touch
anymore. I don't think it's
about touch. I think it's
about gestures. Yeah, that's cool.
Cause I, I'm not a
big touch advocate. I never
really liked the tablet. I
just couldn't get used to
that. As much as I,
I actually still take my
notes by hand on paper.
Cause I can write faster
than I can type even,
but I I'm always kind
of puzzled over the touch
thing cause I'm like, well,
who wants to go and
like be touching their laptop.
I just don't see why
you would want to do
that when you've got the
mouse, you get, you know,
a lot of other ways.
I mean, people say it's
not meant to replace the
mouse, but still it feels
weird to me. Like I
don't want to go touch
my leg. Yeah. I think
you have the right, the
right perspective. If you touch
your laptop in the sense
that if you're pretending that
your finger is a mouse,
your finger like the finger
as pointing device, I think
is a mistake. You're not
going to be able to
click the minimize button with
the tip of your finger
faster than you can with
a mouse. But if, if
you could just make a
gesture and just flip downward
with your finger, I could
see myself sitting on a
plane with a, with a
machine having, you know, one
hand on the mouse, one
hand on the keyboard and
then maybe lift my hand
up and just swipe downward
to close a window or
to minimize a window. Yes,
it would be very handy
in a small space. Like
my apartment where my keyboard
on my little desk, Any
elbow room at all. Are
you able to lift your
arms in your apartment? You
know, I used to live
in Seattle and I had,
I had, I rented a
four bedroom house when I
lived in Seattle and now
I in one room, literally,
literally some people say this
is progress. Some do not.
We need to have you
rescued when we're going to
send someone to your house
and we're going to have
you lowered from the window
because this is really concerning.
Well, thanks so much, Mary
Jo Foley for talking to
me today and you can
read Mary Jo stuff up
at all about Microsoft at
blogs dot  dot com
slash Microsoft. And you're on
Twitter now too, right? Yes
I am on Twitter. All
right. Well thanks a lot.
I really appreciate it. Yeah,
that was fun. Thanks for
having me on This has
been another episode of Hansel
minutes and I'll see you
again next week.